From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman
posted by Carl Franklin. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number 85.
Recorded live Monday, October 15th, 2007. Support
for Hanselman is provided by
Tellerik rad controls. The most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forums and asp.net web
applications. online@wwwdottlerik.com. Support is also
provided by.net developers journal the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Matt Davis architect@earthclassmail.com.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
I'm sitting here with Matt
Davis, the architect@earthclassmail.com. Now earth
class mail has, was talked
about a little bit here
on Hansel minutes. When we
talked to Tim Ferriss, the
author of a four hour
workweek and he uses it
to dramatically lower the amount
of information that he has
to absorb the amount of
mail he asked to touch.
So, Matt, what is earth
class mail? Basically it works
like kind of like mailboxes,
et cetera, for the 21st
century. You, you give us
a, when you, when you
sign up with us, we'll
give you a virtual PO
box and you change your
address to us. So we
have a number of different
processing facilities around the country
and different addresses at which
you can receive mail. You
change your address to one
of, to one of our
addresses, and then any mail
that we receive, we scan
the envelopes and make them
available to you online. So
you'd log in just like
you would to your Yahoo
mail or your Gmail account.
And you see all the
external envelope images of any
mail that you've received. At
that point. You can do
one of a few things.
You can either ask us
to open it and scan
it. And we'll in our
secure processing facility. We'll open
that up and, and scan
the contents and make them
available to you as a
PDF. Or you can say,
ah, this is junk mail.
I don't want it just
shred it and recycle it,
whichever you choose. The other
thing you can do is
have it shipped to you.
You can, how you can
have it shipped to you
without us opening it, or
we can open and scan
it and ship you the
contents either way. So it
makes your mail available to
you basically anywhere you are
in the world. So if
I let's say I get
10, 10 snail mails that
day, I can go and
say, shred, shred, shred. And
then these seven, mailed them
to me and go back
to them up into a
big envelope and mail me
that whole envelope. That's correct.
And you scan front and
back. So we see the
whole thing. Yep. Wow. So
you can see whatever notes
are written on the envelope
or, or whatever. Yep. Everything
that's in the envelope. I
mean, they, they, they basically
have no, no exceptions policy
on there. So, I mean,
if you get it, if
you get a piece of
junk mail, if you get
your publisher's clearing house thing
and you want to see
every little scrap of paper
that's in there, we're going
to scan it all Really
even like flyers and kind
of like Domino's pizza, you
know, advertisements and coupons. Yep.
It just makes it simpler.
If you just say we
just scan it, I would
suspect that you probably shred
a heck of a lot
of it. Yeah, we do.
There is a monster shredding
pile over there, Thrilling. And
I had this image in
my mind of just like
robots, like, you know, Honda
or Sony robots doing all
this work. I, is it
that? Or is it people
Right now? It's people, you
know, we we've just recently
gotten a nice funding block
that we're, we're just starting
to dip our toe into
the waters of automation. And
so we've got some really
interesting equipment on order that
that's gonna help us get
started with that. And we've
got, obviously, if you, if
you look at the website,
you'll see things about mega
sorters and we've got some
prototype robotics designs and things
for, for doing mass, like
really mass quantity storage of
mail. Wow. So at some
point it'll probably be faster
for the post office just
to hand you the mail
than to deliver it through
the post office. You know,
that would be a, that
would be a wonderful day.
Pretty cool. So this sounds
like a phenomenal, huge amount
of data. I mean, along
with little tiny bits of
data, in the sense of,
I'm just envisioning there's me
and I'm some, some good
or some identity in a
database somewhere, and then there's
unique numbers identify all of
my different pieces of mail
and these are all very
small amounts of information. And
then there's huge PDFs and
images of my, of my
mail. Yep. So it's just
all these little bits of
information that point to all
this huge amounts of information
you're using SQL server, are
you using my SQL or
what what's, what's your guys's
technology? So the system, as
it exists as of this
recording is, is running on
a lamp stack. So Tell
our listeners what lamp is.
Okay. One knows that Linux
Apache, my, my SQL and
PHP. Okay. So yeah, the
system, as it, as it
stands today was, was built
by a Russian contracting firm.
And so it's, I don't
want to make any comments
about quality, but let's say
it, you know, it was
the original, the original system
was, was built quickly and,
and yeah. Built lamp stack.
Yeah. Based on PHP. Yeah.
And, you know, it's taken,
it's taken quite a while
to get that stable, but
it it's quite stable as
it is, but it doesn't
give us a great platform
for growth into the future.
So we are just putting
the finishing touches on our.net
port of the system. And
actually it's not really even
a port, it's a rewrite,
it's a complete rewrite with
not really a lot of
thought to trying to preserve
any of the architecture that
was there. Basically the UI
looks about the same and
that's it? No, it was
the original lamp stack, pretty
straightforward. I mean, web browser
hits Apache web server, Apache
web server writes directly to
probably the file system and,
or my SQL database. Yep.
That's correct. And as you
can imagine that presents a
number of scalability problems. Let's
talk about that. Architecture are
the, the issues primarily just
that it's a straight three
tier architecture, or it looks
more like a tutor RQ.
Yeah. It really is. That's
the, that's one of the,
you don't have an intermediate
in any way That architecture
is a it's it's straight.
The funny thing is that
they did everything in PHP,
like their, you know, their
little backend Daymond processes and
things. I mean, there's actually
Cron jobs that are going
and running PHP scripts that,
you know, on the backend,
they did everything Well, you
know, when, when all you
have is a hammer, everything
looks like a nail that's
right. So it's my SQL
holding up under the, under
the strain or is that
an issue at all? Actually,
Well, stuff hasn't been, we
haven't had any trouble at
all with the, my SQL
stuff. The, the real problems
that we're having are just,
you know, memory and mostly,
you know, implementation details. You
know, I have no doubt
that we could have built,
we could have rebuilt the
system on lamp. You know,
I, I don't want to
get a bunch of flaming
emails from, from the lamp
love. There's no doubt that
we could have rebuilt the
system on lamp and then
been totally fine. But the,
the Danette platform gave us
a lot of really interesting
new bits that we didn't
have to build. Was that
a hard sell? I mean,
I assume that there's some
boss somewhere above you who
has to make those kinds
of decisions. Honestly, I don't
think it was a hard
sell. I actually wasn't even
involved in that decision. I
was, I was hired on
after they decided they wanted
to do, they wanted the
port, the new system to.net.
So they were looking for
a Danette architect that was
used to building fairly large
systems. So I applied and
got the job. So you're
doing this on dotnet two
Oh and visual studio, 2005,
or Actually we, we decided
to go ahead and, and
bite the bullet. We're gonna,
we're building on orcas. So
Really, so you're building a
visual studio 2008. Now, does
that mean just the aid?
Are you using.net 335? We're
using.net three Oh and three
five there. I think the
number of the number of,
of like standard SQL statements
that exist in this, in
this piece of software is
probably could be counted on
one hand. The entire thing
is powered by link to
SQL I'll call the data
tier is powered by link
to SQL. We're using WCF
to communicate between the tiers.
All the operations software is
written in a wind forms
and WPF Really WPF. Are
you doing click ones? Actually,
we, unfortunately we have some
real problems with click wants
because we're doing a lot.
We have to do a
little bit of native native
code interrupt to talk to
scanners and things. So a
click wants doesn't play, you
know, you can make it
work, but the way our,
the other thing, the other
problem with quick click once
that we had is the,
you can't deploy multiple. You
can't deploy to a machine,
you deploy to a user.
So operator workstations are kiosks.
So, you know, we may
have a number of different
operators sitting at a given
station in a given day.
And so each one of
them has their own active
directory login and, and which
means they'd have multiple copies
of the software. And, you
know, given that we have
some, we have some queuing
software and stuff that's running
in the background, as well
as, as a windows service.
It just, it didn't play
too well with click one.
So as it stands today,
unfortunately, So there's a lot
lot going on here. I'm
trying to think of what
we should talk about first.
So let's start at the
back end and work our
way up to the, up
to the glass, up to
the monitor. Okay. So linked
to SQL. So you really
kind of jumped, jumped in
both feet and was that
a hard sell? I mean,
I'm sh cause sometimes there's
sometimes there's shops that are
very database focused and they
really think that Sprockets are
where it's at. Right. And
the logic is in the
South Bronx and, you know,
link to SQL is really
a powerful technology, but I
wouldn't say it's Brock friendly.
Yeah. That I had actually,
I would I'm I might
almost disagree that it's not
Spock friendly that, you know,
you can, you can make
it work with Sprocket, but
obviously the, the real power
and sexiness of linked to
SQL is, is being able
to do everything right there
in the code. You know,
I, I thought it might
be a hard sell. Initially.
My, my boss, the VP
of engineering here is he's,
he's an old, you know,
he's an old school database
head. And so I was
figuring that I was going
to get some pushback on
that, but really, you know,
he, he just said do
whatever he thinks. Right. And
so that's cool initially, you
know, I was a little
nervous about it and, and
I had it all. I
had all the link to
SQL stuff, locked away in
a, you know, in a
class that, you know, I
didn't let anything leak out
of that class. So if,
if, if link to SQL
just completely fell down on
me, that I could go
back in and fix it,
but it's been working fantastic.
I mean, we, we found
a couple of bucks here
and there and we had
some pain going from beta
one to beta two. They
changed the Nelson antics on
us and ended a few
other things. But in general,
it's, it's worked out fantastic.
Okay. So from, let's talk
about it from a design
perspective. So you've got a
bunch of leaked, SQL statements.
You said that they're working
okay with sprog. So there
are some Sprockets that you
call Actually, not other than,
other than, I mean, we've,
we've linked in a couple
of SQL server functions so
that we can use them
directly from the link to
SQL stuff. But no, actually
we have, we have a
zero stored procedures. We have
like two triggers. I mean,
this is pretty much a
code centric application, which makes
the deployment update. So you
were saying just a second
ago that I need to
be educated about this. So
it's friendly. You said it's
linked to sequel is friendly
to some, but you said
also to, you had some
SQL server functions that you'd
LinkedIn, how do you do
that? Basically? Like you have
to hack them right now.
It's not a very good
story. You have to actually
hack the DBML files yourself.
So you, the, the, our
designer doesn't allow you to
drag in system functions, or
at least I haven't figured
out how to get it
to work. You know, there,
there might be some trick,
but I'm not, I'm not
a big user of the
server Explorer. So I don't
know all the different modes
that are there, but yeah,
in general, you, as far
as LinkedIn SQL is concerned,
a system function or a
system Sprocket looks the same
as, as one of yours,
you just, it's just a
matter of how you address
it in the, in the
DBML. So normally, like if
you have, if you have
user defined functions and things
like, and user defined Sprockets,
you'd just drag those in
and out of server Explorer
onto the, our designer surface.
And they, they just magically
appear as methods on your
data context, and you can
call them from anywhere you're
using that link to SQL
data. I'm going to have
to educate myself about that.
Okay. So you said you
had this stuff locked away
in a class. So you've
got a bunch of stuff
on a class and it's
using link to talk to
the database. That's kind of
the right hand. What's going
out the left hand. What
kind of objects are you?
Are you returning out of
there? So this is one
of the other things that
was really sexy about linked
to seagull, the interrupt story
between LinkedIn SQL and w
so we're using WCF. The
left hand is WCL. It
used to be called Indigo.
Yeah. And I loved Indigo.
I've still, I still, I
still die inside a little
bit when I call it
WCF, it's kind of sad,
but so I was glad
they left silver light. Well,
at least link isn't called
WTF or something. Yeah. Link
is actually kind of a
sexy It's the key works.
Yes, it is the cue.
You're right. It's all about
the queue. So anyway, yes,
the left hand side is,
is WCF. And so the,
the interrupt story between LinkedIn
SQL and WCF is a
little scary because I I'm
personally, not one. I don't
like to let my, I
don't let, I don't like
to let my message contracts
and my data contracts look
too much like my database,
I, you know, I like
them to look like the
logical, you know, more, more
logical. So you'd like to
separate your data, transfer objects
in your business objects. Yes.
But with a DBML file,
you point your database at
it, and then kind of
public class food shows up.
If you've got a food
table, unless you decide to
hack that up and then
you can kind of get
to where I was going.
Do you let those objects
out? Yeah. Or do you
make other ones that look
like them? I, I screwed
around for about two weeks
trying to figure out a
decent way to let those
objects out or to decorate
those objects in such a
way that, that I could
control what they looked like.
And actually that's cool What
they look like on the
wire or from the CLR
perspective. Yeah. Well, both, but
more, more what they look
like on the wire. Okay.
So you're talking about putting
data contract and basically WCF
attributes decorating them on the
generators, Correct. Or, or trying
to do it on the,
you know, in a partial
class on the side, or
trying to do it on
a base class. I mean,
I messed around with it
for quite a while, trying
to come up with a
combination that worked. And actually
they changed the story between
beta one and beta two
beta one. You could, you
could apply in the or
designer. You could actually apply
any attributes you wanted to
any of that stuff. They,
they backed off on that.
And now basically there's one
bit that you, there's no
custom attributes support in the,
or designer. There's basically a
bit you can flip on
any class that says serialized
or not. And if, if
you Mark it serialized, it,
it, it adds the data
contract and data member attributes
to everything it's it's all
or nothing. So the serialized
bit that you're talking about
is almost like a make
this WCF friendly or not,
but not the granularity that
you wanted. Right. So what
we ended up doing actually
is building some, just really
simple copy methods that, that
will copy from a given
link type, even do a
deep copy of a given
link type into, into a
given WCF contract type. So
we actually have, you know,
completely separate WCF contract types
defined. And then there are
places where, and the really
cool thing about linked to
SQL was that you can
actually plug that in, in
your select statement. So in
the, in the select, in
the select call on the
link, on the link query,
we actually call that copy
method. So instead of like
getting back a bunch of
objects and then for reaching
over them and copying, making
copies of the WCF objects,
it actually comes straight out
of formal marshaling. Yeah. It
actually comes right out. We,
we squirt the, we squirt
the WCF bits right out
the back of link. So
then what's the point of
this, the link types at
all. So the link types,
still the link types still
have to abstract. I mean,
ultimately at some level you
have to have something that
looks like what's in the
DB. So with, with LinkedIn
SQL, you know, and I
know with entity framework and
some of the other things
that are coming out of
this is the story's a
little different. And I, you
know, entity framework is interesting
to me. I wonder if
it wouldn't solve some of
the problems, but I just
don't have the panel to
look into it since it's
not shipping in a timeframe
that works for us. So
I'll definitely be looking into
it when it comes back.
But anyway, yeah. Link to
SQL. You ultimately have to
have a class somewhere that
looks like what's in the
DB. So that, that, that
Orr mapper can do its
job. So, you know, the
easiest, the easiest way to
get that is to use
the R designer, which is
the, you know, just the
gooey drag and drop tables
out of SQL server. So
there's deep copy. Is this
a reflection thing? No, it's,
it's just straight, you know,
stupid, you know, this field
maps to this field, copies
it Manually written. Yeah. So,
you know, and I'm just
brainstorming here. I'm trying to
challenge my own assumptions as
well as yours. So you
wanted so much control over
the WCF types that you
did that did that left
hand, right hand kind of,
you know, this field, that
field is in that field
work, as well as having
a whole separate kind of
identity. What was wrong with
just the push of button
then it's available to WCF
serialize property. Well, given that
some of the, some of
the growth changes that we
know we're going to be
going through, I think trying
to keep them isolated a
little bit, what basically what
we did is we designed
the WCF types to look
like, you know, to, to
be a little more forward
looking in the way to
have a few features in
there that aren't turned on
yet. And then we have
things that are, we have
things that aren't even in
the DB yet, or we
have things that we made
shortcuts in the DB to,
you know, we, we sacrifice
some normalization to get something
where if we tried to,
if we tried to expose
that directly through the contract's
types, you'd end up with
something that's kind of unwieldy.
It, it actually works really
well when you're talking to
it through link because you
have, you have some fairly
decent control over the, you
know, back references and things
that make them a little
more queryable. It makes it's
just fantastically easy to do
joins and things like that.
I mean, I, I look
at the SQL that I
would have had to write
something that I can write
in, you know, of a
fairly short line of LinkedIn
SQL query. I mean, it
might be, you know, it'd
be, you know, 30 or
40 lines of nasty SQL
that to put it together.
And it generates it for
me every once in a
while, you can watch the
queries that come out every
once in a while, the,
the do the visualizer. Well,
even without the visualizer, you
can sort of see, and,
and that, you know, I
know Scott goop put out
the, a, that asp.net heard
the, the link to SQL
query visualizer. And that thing
is just fantasy. Yeah. Have
you used link pad? I
haven't, I've seen it. Gotta
check that out. Yeah. It
lets you, it's basically a
query analyzer. It lets you
write link and then see
what comes out. So it's
a, it's a query analyzer
like experience where you type
link five type link at
five. So you basically get
your queries right inside of
link Pat, and then copy
paste them over into visuals.
Assuming that's targeting linked to
objects, not linked to SQL
Don't link to sequel link
to objects, link to whatever.
Huh. Interesting. Totally generic thing.
Yeah. Yeah. That'd be interested
to see how they're doing,
how they're doing The class
mapping stuff for the link.
I mean, it is a
Interesting to see if your
stuff works, the stuff that
you're doing, where the objects
actually pop out the side.
Yeah. Yeah. So what about
validation? Because one of the
things that I thought was
cool about link is the
idea that I could have
like public partial class product
and that's inside of the
designer that's generated and the
way that they get around,
not being able to edit
that generated code as well
as avoiding kind of uncomfortable
object hierarchies for things like
validation, being able to like,
like they could have called
it product base and then
you derive and have an
on validate and, and things
like that on insert and
stuff like that. You can
have partial methods, right? So
you could have public partial
method on validate. And that's
the method that gets called
when it's time to, to
validate a particular class. Have
you done that kind of
stuff at all? We've played
with the partial method stuff
a little bit. Unfortunately we
did most of our design
on the beta one stuff
where the partial methods bits
weren't in there yet. So
we've, you know, since switching
to beta two we've, we've
plugged in a few things
there, but a lot of
that stuff was baked unfortunately,
before it was baked after
we had baked our code.
So the partial methods stuff
is really interesting though, because
it is basically just like
lightweight inventing. I mean, it's,
it's really cool that like
the, that the compiler doesn't
generate anything. If, you know,
you don't, you only pay
the price. If you actually,
you only pay the price
for that event and overhead,
if you actually subscribe, if
you actually do something with
the event, if you implement
a handler for, Yeah. It's
taken me a while to
get my brain around it
because, you know, if you
think about how I've got
this class and I say,
you know, data context submit
all changes. And if that
class isn't cool, I want
to know about it. How
could that have been done?
It could have been done
with the pubsub. It could
have been formally inventing Dutton
and events could have been
derivation with a virtual method
that gets called if it's,
if it's overwritten or with
the partial classes, classes where
the partial methods rather, where
if the method is implemented,
it'll get called. How are
you keeping track of validation?
How do you prevent a
foo object from getting into
the database? If it's not
really correct, We have several
layers of a validation going
on. I mean, obviously the
first stuff is happening up
in the UI and, and
in the front or the
front end of the service
tier, just, just doing, you
know, standard old school validation.
So, you know, asp.net validation,
things on the front end
and, and just normal checks
on the backend input, validation
controls, just basic stuff further
back, you know, we've, we've
got a lot of checks
in the DB itself to
th that are doing some
consistency checking. There, there are
a few triggers that run
looking for, for goofy things
that we couldn't catch in
easier ways. But yeah, for
the most part, basically we
do the checking as the
objects are being created, because
usually since there is that
left to right, you know,
where we're converting from a
WCF type to a link
type, sometimes we'll do the
checking in there too. But
the, one of the problems
that we have with validation,
I mean, obviously you usually
have to w when you
split the things across tiers,
that way you usually have
to do the majority of
the validation upfront. So, you
know, we don't want to
have to go all the
way back to the DB
tier to find out that
something's wrong and then have
to marshal some kind of
exception. That's understandable to asp.net
all the way back up.
Right? So the, you know,
the stuff that's going on
in the service tier is
mainly like the, the kind
of the backstop for things
that, you know, did either
didn't get through or were
maliciously stuffed in, you know,
through an Ajax end point
or something that bikes. So
asp.net makes some, some object
that's makes a service proxy.
I assume it makes a
WCF service proxy. Yep. Makes
a, you know, a foo
object that is a WCF
object and then passes it
into WCF. What are those
methods look like and how
do they map all the
way back? Well, so that's
one of the places where
we've kind of gone away
from the Microsoft guidance a
little bit, and we're taking
advantage of some of the
flexibility of WCF. So I'm,
I'm definitely more of a
contract first kind of developer.
I like, I like the
idea of, you know, defining,
defining my wire format to,
to an extent. I mean,
I, you know, I'm not
quite, I'm not quite as
into it as Timmy Walder
or whatever You like your
control. You want your angle
brackets a certain way. I
do. I do. And so
we're actually in almost all
the literature that I've seen
describing WCF that everybody kind
of downplays the message contract.
So the message contract is
the thing that, that basically,
you know, maps to like
a whistle operation, Which is
funny. Cause it seemed to
me like a couple of
years ago it was all
about contract first. Yes. And
then it switched to code
first. And I think I'm
with you, I'm still back
in the contract first. Well,
the thing that bothers me
the most about the, about
the, you know, if you,
if you, if you skip
message contracts in Indigo and
WCF, you end up with,
you know, everything is a
method call, right? And so
if I need to, if
I need to add a
field, well, I just screwed
myself because now, you know,
the next time I reach
in my client, all of
my, all of the other
stuff is going to break.
I don't have, I don't
have as much control if
you do something really screwy
where you like change, where
you change the type of
a, a, of a parameter,
or if you leave something,
you can get some really
subtle, interesting of to debug
issues. So I don't know,
I'm, I'm more a fan
of the message contract programming.
So, so basically all of
our contracts are defined in
terms of, you know, all
the operations are defined in
terms of MES contracts. Okay.
So asp.net guy makes the
service proxy passes some stuff
into, to WCF. So do
you have actual physical tears?
Because sometimes I think that
there's a bit of confusion
when people use tears versus
layers. I think of layers
as logical things and tears
and physical things. So there's
a physical, separate box from
the asp.net box that handles
that all the WCF hosting.
Yeah. In our, in a
deployment scenario. That's true. I
mean, in development, obviously we're
not messing around with that.
So the tiers are both
logical and physical in deployment.
They are, they are set
up for physical separation. So
for instance, the stack that
we have, the, the stack
that we're going live with
on our.net system is eight
servers. So, Hm. So there
are two web servers, two
app servers that handle things
like, you know, billing, email
alerts, all the, the little
just inventing stuff. And then
we have these, these two
large image servers store, all
of the, you know, so
they have a two terabyte
file store on a beach
that store all of the,
you know, all the images
and PDFs and all that
stuff. And, and actually those
also do the, those are
also running a WCF Ajax
service, which is new for
three, five. So we're self,
self hosting, a WCFA Ajax
service in there that the
browser. So we're doing, if
you look at the client
the way the client works
and when it requests all
the metadata about mail. So
when you're doing your, you
know, you look at all
the, your envelope images and
all that stuff, it's making
a, it's making an Ajax
request. It's all client side,
it's making an Ajax request
directly back to that image
store. So the image store
is handling, you know, all
the marshaling that's where all
the link to SQL stuff
that's going on for, for
male, male metadata. So how
do I keep that from,
how do I, like as
a, I'm an evil guy,
and I want to sniff
that Ajax, and I'm going
to go and try to
look for other people's mail.
Oh, go ahead. Give it
a shot. It's probably not
going to work. So how
do you handle that kind
of authorization? I mean, is
this all based on cookies
and the, that the, that
forms authentication ticket is kind
of fundamental, right? Well, actually
the, the problem there is,
so we, we weren't able
to use any of that
stuff because forms are trying
to host forms, authentication outside
asp.net is kind of tricky.
I mean, you can do
it, but we didn't want
to. So like I said,
we're self hosting, the Ajax,
the WCF Ajax services over
there. So the things that
are running on the image
servers, there's no IAS, or,
you know, there's no Posting,
you're saying like, there's like
a console or a window
service. Yes. There's a windows
surface that, that actually hosts
the WCF, the new web
HTTP binding. So it's, it's
a super fast, super lightweight.
It's really nice not having
IAS in the mix, but
you know, you're kind of,
you're kind of out in
the loan Trey world there
because you, you don't have
all the, you don't have
the stuff that comes in
the asp.net pipeline that you
get. So used to it,
you know, you don't get
your cookies, you don't get
your caching, you don't get
it right. You basically, you
know, they give you a
headers collection and you can
stuff, whatever you want to
look, whatever you want. But
that's it good luck with
that. Yeah. There's no, there's
no built in cookie handling.
There's no nothing there. So
We thought about using Vista
and windows activation service. Yeah.
Actually I had wished I
wished we had, I wish
we had built our dev
machines for it, but that
particular instance, right. As it
is right now, we, we
don't use windows activation service.
So there is a, there's
a, there's a console app.
Like when the developers are
working with something, there's a
console app that hosts all
the other individual services. I
see. And then we just
have a few config entries
that point everything to the
right place. But you know,
one of the other really
big problems that we ran
into there was that Ajax
it's, it's kind of loosely
documented the, the behavior of
Ajax when it comes to
multiple hosts is kind of
loosely documented. So everybody talks
about cross domain. You can't
do cross domain. Well, it
turns out you also can't
do cross host, which is
different than everything else. Like
the, you know, if you're,
if you're, if you want
to serve images or anything
from a browser, like a
browser can, can rec and
like through an SSL connection
or not, it doesn't matter
where you can, you can
request different hosts on the
same domain. And that works
fine. Ajax doesn't work that
way. And I found that
out the hard way. Can
you give me some examples
in like a, you're talking
about like www one dot
Well, sure. So, so for
instance, I mean, I told
you that our, our image,
our image and my mail
metadata servers are running on
separate physical hardware. Right. So
the original intent was that
those things would just be
a separate host. You know,
it'd be, you know, Ajax
dot first class mail.com and,
and you would, you would
make a request to that.
Well, a separate sub domain
within the larger domain, right?
It's yeah. It's just separate
hosts. I mean, it shows
up as a separate virtual
IP cause everything everything's all
in an active, active, active
stack, so, right. So, you
know, we just have however
many boxes we need. We
just, I mean, we've got
a load balancer sitting out
front, that's just doing stupid
load value, you know, just
round Robin. Yeah. And everything's
hunky Dory, except that yeah.
You can't do that with
Ajax. It has to go
back exactly to where it
came from. Yep. It has.
That's why people talk about
having Ajax proxies basically it's
services that do nothing but
proxy Ajax drift. Yep. And
this was my first real
experience with Ajax and I
kind of poked out and
played with it a little
bit before, but I'd never
had to deal with it
on any kind of a
scale that where I would
need to do something across
multiple hosts. So we ended
up having to do some
magic on our load balancers,
some layer layer, seven content
redirection to say, okay, anything
that says slash jsom goes
right. Goes to that server.
And yeah. The other way
would have been to have
the asp.net servers that the,
the page was served from
basically host a proxy that
did nothing, but there's left
hand right hand, which would
have been yeah. Which will
be more of a hassle
than right. Well, and, and
it's, I mean, it's a,
it's just a waste of
why would I, why channel
the bits through the asp.net,
Right. When the, when the
load balancer can do it.
Yeah. So back to the
security thing, so you don't
have cookies, you don't have
a lot of automatic stuff
going on. What's you know,
how do you get the,
the image server to not
give back images that the
user shouldn't be allowed to
see? So basically what we
ended up having to do
is roll a little bit
of our own sessioning infrastructure
that goes against the DB.
So one of the nice
things is that we don't
have security below the mailbox
level. So like you, like
if you're a business account,
or if you, if you
have multiple people in your
household, you can, you know,
you're a Scott Hanselman mailbox.
You can, you can grant
access to your mailbox, to
someone else to be able
to Snoop around and see
your mail. Like if, you
know, if you're in a
business and you have a
secretary that you want to
be able to see your
mail or whatever you want
to, you want to delegate
the handling of your mail
to someone else in your
family, while you go on
vacation or whatever, you can
do that. But we don't,
there's no security below the
mailbox level. So the way
all that stuff gets stored,
what we can do is
basically we can grant you
a little token that says,
all right, you know, this
is, this is Scott session.
And back in the DB,
we can know that Scott
session is associated to a,
you know, what we know
what mailbox is you have
access to. And we just
do an access check when
you, so whenever you make
a request, I mean, you're,
you still have a cookie
that came through, but it's
a cookie that we assigned
to you that, you know,
so we're not using asp.net
sessions or anything like that
to do this. We kind
of had to roll our
own session. West comes in
for the picture of my,
my Domino's pizza coupon that
was sent to me. We
go to the database to
make sure that this is
me, that the ticket that
I came in with is
Scott's ticket. Scott's mail are
these things, is this file
that just got requested a
part of Scottsdale. Yeah. That
was some somebody goes and
tries to ask for a
different, I dunno, a different
unique ID and tries to
sneak a look at someone
else's mail. It's not part
of his mailbox. He can't
Right. They're all mailbox qualified.
So, and actually what we
ended up doing is storing
things. So there's actually not
a DB head involved in
any of that, except for
the initial access check on
the mailbox, which we cash.
So basically, you know, you're
always coming to us. You're
always going to be coming
back to us, probably asking
for mail from Scott's mailbox.
I mean, unless, except in
some really strange administrator scenarios
where we allow like an
administrator to have access to
multiple male or equal. Yeah.
Well even, but even if
you're evil, you're like, well,
we're going to tell you
to go away. If you
come and ask for an
image that isn't in your
mailbox. So, but the way
those things are stored on
the file system, we actually
know we know what mailbox
they're stored in. There's some
pointer files and things that
are going on in the
file system so that we
don't actually have to hit
the DB for every one
of those hits. So it's
our image servers are really
nice. Wait, someone, can't, it
kind of cause a denial
of service by virtue of
the fact that you're just
asking, you know, an evil
person asking for a lot
of mail. That's not his,
it doesn't affect the data.
Correct. Because we also catch
the negative. So yeah. If,
if, if you come to
us and try to hit
some other mailbox, we're going
to say, ah, no. And
yeah, we also usually a,
that gets logged as well.
So yeah. Cause of course
it's auditing, right? Because this
is about your mail. Yes.
Very cool. And then just
real briefly, you were talking
about doing WPF on the,
on the client side. So
when people hear WPF, they
think in it kind of,
you know, transparency and animation
and all sorts. So are
these pretty sexy looking applications
for managing mail on the
front end or they're like
the BPF and not just
wind for them, They're a
lot sexier than their wind
farms counterparts, but there there's
actually a fair amount of,
there's a fair amount of
data binding. And obviously, you
know, we're, we're dealing with
a little bit of image
manipulation here. So some of
those things are a little
easier to do in WPF
with the stuff that comes
in the box. You know,
it's, it's a lot easier
to, to scale an image
and get it to work
the way you want. And
there's, we haven't actually deployed
that software yet either. We've
kind of, we've done a
couple of prototypes and test
deployments of it, but you
know, the, the, the look
and feel definitely went over
well with the, the folks
over in the warehouse that
are running it. So That's
interesting. A lot of people
think about the pretty stuff,
but the first thing you
said was the data binding.
That's kind of like one
of the cool things about
WPF that I've read when
I read it in Chris
sales book, Deep data mining
is, is the way of
the future. Is it really,
Oh man, binding path, it's
all about binding and all
that. Cause you can cause,
Oh you can, you can,
you can dot, you can.as
far into an object as
you want for data mining.
And you know, you try
to do that in wind
forms and it's just, it's
kind of a pain really.
Yeah. That sounds like you're
breaking the law to meet
her at that point. If
you can go three, four
deep into an office, Well,
we, we don't usually go
that far, but you know
yeah. But yeah. Cool. Well,
Matt, I really appreciate you
taking the time to talk
to us here on Hansel
minutes and you know, maybe
we'll come by sometime with
a video camera and we'll
do some actual demos maybe
do as kind of a
screencast or certificate with some
of the cool stuff that
you're doing. And so you
can go live with beta
two if we wanted to,
right. Yeah. Go live license.
That's actually our plan. We'll
even, even if, even if
the 2008 TMS before we
actually edit, just because we've
done all the testing too,
we'll probably end up deploying
on beta to do a,
do a quick release. And
over the next few weeks
after we've actually had a
test, a chance to figure
out what changed between beta
two and RTM and Cool.
All right, we'll see you
next week on Hansel minutes.